## Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Business Scenario](#business-scenario)
4. [Project Background](#project-background)
5. [Task 1: Data Loading and Model Relationships in Tableau](#task-1-data-loading-and-model-relationships-in-tableau)
6. [Task 2: Develop Interactive and Effective Dashboards using Tableau](#task-2-develop-interactive-and-effective-dashboards-using-tableau)
7. [Task 3: Narrate a Data Story using Tableau Story Point](#task-3-narrate-a-data-story-using-tableau-story-point)

## Introduction

By the end of this assignment, you will be able to:
- Detect and understand the stories within datasets and extract insights from the given dataset
- Effectively present data visually to enhance audience comprehension of findings and insights.
- Apply data visualization best practices including choosing the right chart type for the situation and avoiding visualization techniques that can mislead the audience.
- Act as a data-driven visual storyteller for optimal presentation of trends, patterns and insights.
- Effectively communicate insights about data in various formats, including oral presentations and interactive visualizations.

## Business Scenario

Adventure Works Cycles (AWC) is an international manufacturer and seller of bicycles and accessories. The company’s headquarters is located in Bothell, Washington, USA and have 3 main regional sales offices in America, European and the Pacific. AWC would like to expand their sales to their best customers, extending its product availability through an external website, while maintaining the lower production costs. AWC sales mainly come from two sales channels, such as resellers and internet/online. There are three major product categories for AWC online sales namely bikes, clothing and accessories & components. The core income for AWC is obtained by selling three main brands of bikes such as mountain bikes, road bikes and touring bikes bicycles. An additional income is generated by selling cycling accessories such as bottles, caps, gloves, jerseys, and components namely bike racks, brake chains, handlebars etc.

In this individual assignment, you are required to develop interactive and effective data visualizations, integrate the visualizations into dashboards and present a data story using Tableau. The dataset of this assignment will be an MS SQL database, Adventure Works.

## Project Background

The trend toward digital business is overwhelming due to the paradigm shift in the business world. However, Adventure Works Cycles (AWC) was comparatively behind the line as they only started their online business in the year 2010. AWC also claimed that internet sales have not been achieving the set target, thus the sales performance showed a declining trend. This resulted in decreased sales and missed revenue targets over the years. The sales and marketing team of AWC worked to improve the marketing alignments and increase online sales by discovering business insights via analyzing the data for better decision making.

As a business analyst employed by AWC, you are tasked to analyze the data of AWC and present a data story using Tableau. Your data story is required to fulfill the objectives listed below:
1. To examine the prevailing situation of the internet sales of AWC via descriptive analytics methods.
2. To draft valid recommendations to AWC by evaluating the customer buying behavior to improve their future internet sales.

## Task

- Task 1: Data Loading and Model Relationships in Tableau

- Task 2: Develop Interactive and Effective Dashboards using Tableau

- Task 3: Narrate a Data Story using Tableau Story Point



